高中英文句型與翻譯例句集（第11-12章）

第11章 比較級

11-1 (The) N/Ns + of/in ~ + be + ~ er + than + that/those + of/in ~ ～的（某物）比～更～

臺北的氣候比東京暖和。
The climate in Taipei is warmer than that in Tokyo.

兔子的耳朵比老鼠的長。
The ears of a rabbit are much longer than those of a mouse.

那家餐廳的服務比這家好。
The service of that restaurant is better than that of this one.

臺灣人比中國人享有更多的自由。
People in Taiwan enjoy more freedom than those in China.

中國的人口比加拿大要多得多。
The population in China is much larger than that in Canada.

我的頭比你大，而你的眼睛比我大。
My head is bigger than yours, while your eyes are larger than mine.

11-2 倍數 + 比較級 + than ~ / 倍數 + as + adj.(+ N) + as ~ / 倍數 + the + N + of ~ ～是～的幾倍

這所大學是那所小學的十倍大。
This university is ten times larger than that elementary school.

我姊每月賺的錢約是我的三倍。
My sister earns about three times as much (money) as I (do) every month.

信不信由你，這位丈夫的年紀是他太太的兩倍。
Believe it or not, this husband is twice the age of his wife.

這本書的長度是上個月我讀過那本的四倍。
This book is four times the length of the one I read last month.

爸爸的體重是女兒的三倍。
The father is three times heavier than his daughter.
= The father is three times as heavy as his daughter.
= The father is three times the weight of his daughter.

11-3 A be + senior/junior/superior/inferior + to B 較年長/較年幼/優於/劣於

我年紀比你哥哥大。
I am senior to your elder brother. = Your elder brother is junior to me.

在速度方面，汽車勝過腳踏車。
A car is superior to a bicycle in speed. = A bicycle is inferior to a car in speed.

這椿悲劇發生在二次世界大戰前。
This tragic incident happened prior to World War II.

他女朋友年紀比他小。
His girlfriend is junior to him.
= His girlfriend is younger than he / him.

談到烹飪，他勝過他太太。
When it comes to cooking, his wife is inferior to him.
= When it comes to cooking, his wife is worse than him.

他比他女友大二十歲。
He is twenty years older than his girlfriend.
= He is twenty years senior to his girlfriend.
= He is older than his girlfriend by twenty years.
= He is senior to his girlfriend by twenty years.

11-4 The + more (adj. / adv.) ~, the + more (adj. / adv.) ~ 愈～，就愈～

她吃得愈多，變得愈胖。
The more she ate, the fatter she became.

你車開得愈快就愈危險。
The faster you drive, the more dangerous it will be.

你讀得愈多，愈博學。
The more you read, the wiser you become.

你愈用功，成績就愈好。
The harder you study, the better grades you will get.

你愈足不出戶，認識的朋友就愈少。
The less you go out, the fewer friends you will make.

愈快愈好。
The sooner, the better.

欲速則不達。
More haste, less speed.

11-5 S + would rather/sooner + V1 + than + V2 ~ ～寧可～也不願～

他寧可坦蕩地輸，也不願欺詐地贏。
He would rather play honestly and lose than cheat and win.

我寧願在家，也不願上網咖。
I would sooner stay at home than go to the internet café.

他寧可環島旅行，也不願出國。
He would rather travel around the island than go abroad.
= He would travel around the island rather than go abroad.
= He prefers to travel around the island rather than go abroad.
= He prefers to travel around the island instead of going abroad.

我寧可說實話（也不願意撒謊）。
I would rather tell the truth (than lie).

她較喜歡單身（而不喜歡結婚）。
She prefers to stay single (rather than get married).

我喜歡看劇勝過讀小說。
I prefer watching dramas to reading novels.

11-6 ~ not so much A as B 與其說是 A，不如說是 B

比賽結束後，與其說他精疲力竭，不如說他失望透頂。
After the game was over, he was not so much exhausted as disappointed.

這部電影與其說是具教育意義，不如說是具娛樂性。
This movie is not so much for education as for entertainment.

這趟冒險中，真正重要的與其說是目的地，不如說是旅程本身。
Not so much the destination as the journey itself is what matters in this adventure.

與其說她是歌手，不如說她是演員。
She is not so much a singer as an actress.
= She is less a singer than an actress.
= She is more an actress than a singer.
= She is an actress rather than a singer.

她的白馬王子既英俊又有紳士風度。
Her Mr. Right is as gentle as handsome.

真正的幸福與其說在於財富不如說在於健康。
True happiness lies not so much in wealth as in health.

這位謙虛的人與其說將成功歸因於自己的能力不如說歸因於自己的努力。
The modest man attributes his success not so much to his ability as to his effort.

這個女孩既好客又友善。那意思是她不僅友善而且好客。
The girl is more hospitable than sociable. That means she is not so much sociable as hospitable.

這位小女孩既守規矩又有禮貌。
The little girl is as well-behaved as courteous.

這位學者追求的，與其說是名聲，不如說是真理。
The scholar pursues not so much fame as truth.

與其說他很聰明，不如說他很勤奮。
He is not so much intelligent as diligent.

11-7 S + had better + V 最好（做某事）/ S + know better than + to V 夠聰明而不至於（做某事）

談到投資，你最好聽專家的忠告。
When it comes to investment, you had better follow the experts' advice.

我十分明白不能酒後駕車。
I know better than to drink and drive.

他最好守分點，不然會被處罰。
He had better behave himself, or he will be punished.

她夠聰明，不會嫁個花花公子。
She knows better than to marry a playboy.

他最好別再不守承諾了，否則他女友會和他分手。
He had better not break his promise again. Otherwise, his girlfriend will break up with him.

我早該聰明點，竟然會相信這樣一個騙子。
I should have known better than to trust such a liar.

我們家庭醫生一再警告我辛辣食物可能會刺激我的胃，所以我最好遠離它。
Our family doctor has repeatedly warned me that spicy food may irritate my stomach, so I had better stay away from it.

你怎麼損失這麼多錢？你早該聰明地不把所有錢投入股市。
How come you lost so much money? You should have known better than to invest all your money in the stock market.

他這個月已收到三張罰單，他最好不要再違反交通規則了。
He has got three tickets this month. He had better not violate traffic regulations again.

入學考試就快到了，我很明智，不會虛擲光陰。
The entrance exam is just around the corner. I know better than to waste my time.

為確認這個字的意義及用法，你最好查字典。
To make sure the meaning and usage of this word, you had better look it up in a dictionary.

第12章 特殊動詞用法

12-1 搭配 of 使用的動詞：V + sb. + of + sth.

那個黑衣人搶了那個女人的錢包。
The man in black robbed the woman of her purse.

村民控告農夫謀殺了他的太太。
The villagers accused the farmer of murdering his wife.

當他走在街上的時候，他的筆記型電腦被搶了。
While walking on the street, someone robbed him of his laptop.
= While walking on the street, he was robbed of his laptop.

那個拳擊手被控告殺害他的前妻與她的愛人。
People accused the boxer of killing his ex-wife and her lover.
= The boxer was accused of killing his ex-wife and her lover.

有人懷疑他縱火燒了這間公寓。
People suspected him of setting fire to the apartment.
= He was suspected of setting fire to the apartment.

幸好，他罹患新冠肺炎後痊癒，終於出院了。
Fortunately, he was cured of Covid-19 and was finally released from the hospital.

黑人曾經被剝奪人權。
Black people used to be deprived of their human rights.

我祖母喜歡給人驚喜。她從不事先通知我們她的拜訪。
My grandmother likes to surprise people. She never calls beforehand to inform us of her visits.

這個活動（活動）的目的是提醒人們這種致命雜草（草）對他們身體的危害。
The aim of the campaign is to remind people of the damage the deadly weed does to their body.

那場車禍使他喪失了雙親。（使喪親：bereave）
The car accident bereaved him of his parents.

氣象局警告所有人颱風可能帶來的危險。
The weather bureau warned all people of the dangers brought by the typhoon.

曼谷使他想起家。（曼谷：Bangkok，使想起：remind）
Bangkok reminds him of home.

過去通感症（synesthesia）患者常被指責是無中生有。
People with synesthesia used to be accused of making their experiences up.

12-2 表示「抓、打、拍」的動詞：hit/punch/seize/slap/pat + sb. + in/on/across/by + the + 部位

盛怒之下，他朝對手的肚子擊了一拳。
In great rage, he punched his opponent in the stomach.

當我正要從人群中擠過去時，我覺得有人拍了我的肩膀。
While I was forcing my way through the crowd, I felt somebody patting me on the shoulder.

我爸勃然大怒，打了我一巴掌。
My father hit the ceiling and slapped me across the face.

那個小孩不敢自己一個人走，所以抓著媽媽的袖子。
Afraid to walk alone, the little kid seized her mother by the sleeve.

這隻惡犬咬了那人的腿一口。
The mean dog bit the man in the leg.

我實在氣到忍不住朝他的鼻子擊了一拳。
I was so furious that I couldn't help but give him a punch on the nose.

為了要問我問題，他拍拍我的肩膀。
In order to ask me a question, he gave me a pat on the shoulder.

為了防止小孩迷路，母親抓住他的袖子。
In order to prevent the kid from getting lost, the mother seized him by the sleeve.

她氣得打了她父親一巴掌。
Out of rage, her father slapped her across the face.

她抓著我的手臂，不讓我走。
Not letting go of me, she grasped me by the arm.

為了重新告訴司機方向，Alexander拍拍他的肩膀。（輕拍：tap）
To redirect the driver, Alexander tapped him on the shoulder.

令人難以置信地，他咬了那個小女孩的背部一口。
Incredibly, he bit the little girl in the back.

12-3 搭配 from 使用的動詞：stop/keep/prevent + O + from + N/V-ing/being + p.p. 使免於～、使不能～

大雨使他們無法外出參加晚宴。
The heavy rain stopped them from going out to the dinner party.

別擔心，我會保護你不讓你受傷的。
Don't worry. I will keep you from harm.

這些小孩失去父母，使那些孤兒無法享受童年。
Loss of their parents at such a tender age prevented those orphans from enjoying their childhood.

警方理當要防止目擊證人受到傷害或被殺害。
The police are supposed to prevent the eye witnesses from being injured or killed.

被軟禁的人是不能外出的。
Those who are under house arrest are prohibited from going out.

她的父母一心一意要保護她免於任何傷害。
Her parents make it a point to protect her from any harm.

那個革命家發誓要救他的同胞脫離苦難。
The revolutionary vowed to deliver his people from misery.

一再的失敗讓他受挫，他不想再嘗試了。
Repeated failures have discouraged him from trying again.

他被勸阻別加入那個昂貴的活動。
He was dissuaded from taking part in the costly activity.

降落傘需要被打開因為它可以阻止太空梭掉落。
A parachute needs to be opened because it can stop the shuttle from falling.

同時，太空衣提供必要的氧氣（氣體）供應並使太空人（太空人）免受外界極端高溫或低溫的影響。
Meanwhile, the spacesuit provides necessary oxygen supply and keeps the astronauts from feeling the extreme heat or cold outside the shuttle.

植物產生抗氧化劑以保護自身免於陽光中紫外線的危害。
Plants make antioxidants to protect themselves from the sun's ultraviolet light.

挪威人被禁止侵犯任何象徵國家團結的物品。
Norwegians were prohibited from violating their national unity.

圓窗是一項重大的安全性創新，能防止飛機在飛行途中解體。
Round windows are a major safety innovation that prevent planes from disintegrating mid-flight.

樹木群維持著「羞避距離」——足夠大的空間避免它們碰到鄰居。
Trees maintain "shyness gaps"—spaces large enough to prevent them from touching their neighbors.

我們共同的努力可以阻止全球暖化再惡化下去。（共同的努力：united efforts）
Our united efforts can prevent global warming from getting worse.

12-4 常搭配反身代名詞 + to 使用的動詞：Sb. + devote/dedicate/accustom/expose + oneself + to + N/V-ing / Sb. + be + devoted/dedicated/accustomed/exposed + to + N/V-ing

德蕾莎修女終其一生都致力於幫助窮人。
Mother Teresa devoted herself to helping the poor throughout her life.

他最新的小說是獻給他的太太與孩子的。
His latest novel was dedicated to his wife and children.

搬到另一個城市後，你最好調適自己適應該地的生活方式。
After you move to another city, you had better accustom yourself to the lifestyle there.

曝太久太陽對你有害。
It is harmful for you to expose yourself to sunlight for too long.

他大部分的時間都致力於在實驗室裡做實驗。
He devoted most of his time to making experiments in the laboratory.

她致力於志工工作。
She dedicates herself to volunteer work.
= She is dedicated to volunteer work.

他致力於改善社區的衛生。
He committed (himself) to bettering the sanitation of the neighborhood.
= He was committed to bettering the sanitation of the neighborhood.

定居新大陸之後，他們得要適應新環境。
After they settled down in the New World, they needed to adapt (themselves) to the new environment.
= After they settled down in the New World, they needed to be adapted to the new environment.

我已習慣南臺灣的大熱天。
I am used to the hot weather in southern Taiwan now.

若吸毒成癮，你就完蛋了。
You are doomed if you are addicted to drugs.

這裡的居民都反對再蓋座核電廠。
Residents here are opposed to building another nuclear power plant.

成年人如果在年幼時就依賴物質來獲得情感支持，更有可能對購物成癮。
Adults that have depended on materials for emotional support when they were much younger are more likely to become addicted to shopping.

他不僅全心投入工作，還期待我也要這樣做。
Not only did he devote his whole self to his work, but he expected me to do the same.

小象不習慣穿越（get past）崎嶇不平的地面，因此他們可能很容易受傷。
Babies elephants are not accustomed to getting past rough ground, so they may easily get hurt.

他終其一生致力於攝影。
He devoted his entire life to photography.

為什麼人們會對網路成癮有很多因素可以解釋。
There are many reasons why people become addicted to the Internet.

12-5 persuade + sb. + into + V-ing 說服 / dissuade + sb. + from + V-ing 勸阻

那個推銷員說服她購買那條價值連城的項鍊，真是讓我們目瞪口呆。
Our jaws dropped as the salesman persuaded her into buying the priceless necklace.

身為他的朋友，我認為我有義務要勸阻他，不要做這麼蠢的事。
As his friend, I regard it as my duty to dissuade him from taking such stupid action.

我們說服客人再待一星期。
We persuaded our guests to spend one more week with us.

他終於使我們相信他是清白的。
Eventually, he persuaded us of his innocence.
= Finally, he persuaded us that he was innocent.

令人難以置信地，那個吝嗇鬼竟然被說服了，捐了一大筆錢給孤兒院。
Unbelievably, someone talked the miser into donating a large sum of money to the orphanage.
= Unbelievably, the miser was talked into donating a large sum of money to the orphanage.

令我們遺憾的是，有人勸他不要和我們簽約。
To our regret, someone talked him out of signing the contract with us.
= To our regret, he was talked out of signing the contract with us.

最終，許多投資者被說服投資一大筆錢在這家公司。但他們很快就失去了投入的所有資金。
Eventually, many investors were talked into investing a large sum of money in the company. But they soon lost all the money they put into it.

他說服我相信團隊合作的價值。
He persuaded me of the value of teamwork.

他們的大腦因此受騙，認為他們吃下肚的比實際分量來得多。
Their brain is therefore tricked into thinking they are eating more than they really are.

這些假消息試圖誤導人們相信假的事情。
The fake news tried to fool people into believing something false.

政府被說服考慮另一種方法。
The government was talked into considering another method.

他說服我把藍牙耳機借給他。（藍牙耳機：bluetooth earbuds）
He talked me into lending him my bluetooth earbuds.

老師應該說服學生到圖書館借書。（persuade）
Teachers should persuade students to borrow books from the library.

沒有人可以勸阻我去參加那個課外活動。
（勸阻：dissuade，課外活動：extracurricular activity）
Nobody can dissuade me from participating in that extracurricular activity.

12-6 動詞與名詞的轉換：emphasize/stress + O = put/lay/place + emphasis/stress + on + O

老師常強調課堂參與的重要性。
Our teacher often emphasizes the importance of classroom participation.

媽媽一直強調個人衛生的重要性。
Mother keeps stressing the importance of personal hygiene.

李老師經常強調守時的重要性。
Mr. Li often puts emphasis on the importance of punctuality.

在那個片語裡，我們應該要強調的是第一個字，而不是第二個字。
In the phrase, we should place stress on the first word instead of the second one.

全球暖化會影響到我們所有人。
Global warming will affect all of us.
= Global warming will have an effect on all of us.

許多研究人員對個人的出生順序是否對智力有影響很感興趣。
Many researchers have been interested in whether or not an individual's birth order has an effect on intelligence.

醫生說要對病人可能的劇烈疼痛加以強調。
The doctor said that to emphasize the possible severe pain to the patient.

另一個對命名有影響力的因素是透過媒體的文化傳播。
Another factor that influences the choice of names is the spread of culture through the media.

他雖然一直強調健康的重要性，卻還是在抽菸。
Despite emphasizing the importance of health, he still keeps smoking.

我們英文老師總是強調要在上下文中學單字的重要性。（上下文中：in context）
Our English teacher always emphasizes the importance of learning vocabulary in context.

12-7 感官動詞 + O + V/V-ing/p.p. / 使役動詞：let/make/have + O + V/V-ing/be + p.p. / let/make + O + be + p.p. / have/get + O + to V

回家途中，他看到一位機車騎士撞上了樹。
On his way home, he saw a motorcyclist bump into a tree.

儘管我努力嘗試，他還是不肯聽我說。
Try as I may, I still can't get him to listen to me.

出門時要鎖門。
Let the door be locked when you go out.

他聽到小豬用人聲說話。
He heard the little pig speak in a human voice.

當他開燈時，就看到他的寵物狗躺在地板上。
When he turned on the light, he saw his pet dog lying on the floor.

他的父母叫他去遛狗。
His parents made him walk the dog.
= He was made to walk the dog.

史瑞克被發現在樹林間遊蕩。
People saw Shrek wander in the woods.
= Shrek was seen to wander in the woods.

我們聽到她打破古董花瓶。
We heard her breaking the antique vase.
= She was heard breaking the antique vase.

我們注意到他被痛毆一頓。
We noticed him given a good beating.
= He was noticed given a good beating.

Kim在烈日下慢跑了整個下午後完全精疲力盡；她幾乎沒有力氣離開。
Kim was completely worn out after jogging in the hot sun all afternoon; she had little energy to leave.

她做了一個凳子附著在洗手臺下方櫃櫃的門上。
She made a stool attached to the bathroom cabinet door under the sink.

對於洗腦歌曲持正面態度的人傾向「就讓它們存在著吧」。
Those who have positive feelings about their stuck songs prefer to just "let them be."

當你傾聽別人說話時，是否看見彩虹顏色呢？
When you listen to someone speaking, do you see a rainbow of colors?

你得要準時完成工作。
You need to get the job done on time.

沒有什麼可以使他改變心意的。（make）
Nothing can make him change his mind.

12-8 sit/stand/lie/rest + 介系詞 + O 位於～ / be situated/located + 介系詞 + O 位於～

矗立在山頂的塔，俯視著下面的美麗湖泊。
The tower standing on the hilltop overlooks the beautiful lake.

這家餐廳位於河邊，提供風景如畫的景色。
The restaurant is situated by the river, offering a scenic view.

那個新建的學校座落於市鎮的中心。
The newly-built school was located in the center of the town.

他壯麗的別墅位於河畔。
His magnificent villa lies on the riverside.

他的書報攤位於火車站的大門口。
His newsstand was located at the gate to the train station.

那個偏遠的村落依偎在連綿的群山之間。
The remote village (was) nestled in rolling mountains.

他的成功在於他有優秀的能力把當地的傳統發揚光大。
His success lies in his excellent ability to keep the local traditions alive.

知足常樂。（快樂在於滿足）
Happiness consists in contentment.

像散布在東海的珍珠，澎湖群島（群島）位於臺灣海峽的西南方。
Like pearls scattered in the East Sea, the Penghu archipelago is situated in the southwest of the Taiwan Strait.

不丹王國是一個內陸國家，位於印度和中國之間。
The Kingdom of Bhutan is a landlocked nation situated between India and China.

Bekoji是埃塞俄比亞高原上的一個農牧小鎮，位於海拔近10,000英尺的火山邊上，使日常生活成為一種高海拔訓練。
Bekoji, a small town of farmers and herders in the Ethiopian highlands, sits on the side of a volcano nearly 10,000 feet above sea level, making daily life a kind of high-altitude training.

1499年，葡萄牙探險家Vasco da Gama抵達桑給巴爾，一個位於香料之路十字路口的群島。
In 1499, Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama arrived at Zanzibar, an archipelago situates at the crossroads of the Spice Route.

你要找的那家博物館就在我家附近。
The museum you are looking for is located near my house.

這個博物館位於紐約市郊。（市郊：outskirts）
The museum is situated on the outskirts of New York City.

成功在於努力。
Success lies in hard work.

12-9 團體 + consist of/be made up of/be composed of + 成員 由～組成

這個活潑的班級由二十個男生與二十個女生所組成。
This lively class consists of twenty boys and twenty girls.

交響樂團是由許多演奏不同樂器的音樂家所組成的。
The orchestra is composed of a number of musicians playing different musical instruments.

超過五十幅印象派畫作構成了那個展覽。
More than 50 impressionist paintings made up the exhibition.
= The exhibition was made up of more than 50 impressionist paintings.

十二個人組成此一委員會。
Twelve men compose the committee.
= The committee is composed of twelve men.

四十五歲以下的人構成了主要的勞動力。
People who are under 45 constitute the majority of the labor force.

這個醫療團隊包含兩個醫生與五位護士。
The medical team comprises two doctors and five nurses.
= Two doctors and five nurses comprise the medical team.
= The medical team is comprised of two doctors and five nurses.

1947年到1949年間出生的人構成了520萬勞動人口成員。
These people born between 1947 and 1949 consist of 5.2 million members of the work force.

國家公園由位於兩個國家的兩個公園組成。
The national park is composed of two parks located in two countries.

現在女性構成美國勞動力的46%，女孩可以在各個職業領域找到榜樣——從政治到分子生物學到職業運動，僅舉幾例。
Now that women make up 46 percent of the U.S. workforce, girls can find role models in every occupational field—from politics to molecular biology to professional athletics, to name just a few.

颱風的名字是從由140個名字組成的名字庫中選出的，委員會14個成員每人10個。
The names (of typhoons) were chosen from a name pool consisted of 140 names, 10 each from the 14 members of the committee.

每塊餅乾都包含一條紙條，上面有鼓舞人心的聖經名言。
Each cookie contained a strip of paper inside with an inspirational Bible quotation on it.

人字拖由一塊橡膠、塑料、皮革或編織材料組成，呈腳的輪廓，用帶子固定涼鞋到穿戴者的腳趾上。
The flip-flop consists of a piece of rubber, plastic, leather, or woven material in the outline of a foot, with a strap holding the sandal to a wearer's toes.

他們飲食的主要成分為海綿和藻類。
Their diet consists of sponge and algae.

美國是由五十個州所組成的。
The United States consists of fifty states.

這支顧除完全是由AB型員工組成的。
This consulting team is entirely comprised of Type AB employees.

12-10 動詞或動詞片語的主動及被動：事物 + go/date/can be traced + back to ~ 追溯至～

這個傳統可以追溯到五百年前，當時我們的祖先大部分都是農夫。
The tradition dates back to five hundred years ago, when our ancestors were mostly farmers.

這個習俗可以追溯到唐代。
The custom can be traced back to the Tang Dynasty.

我們可以追溯這個習俗到三千多年前。
We can trace the custom back to more than three thousand years ago.
= The custom can be traced back to more than three thousand years ago.

健康風險也可能源於不當儲存瓶裝水。
Health risks can also result from inappropriate storage of bottled water.

書面文字的歷史可以追溯到6000年。
The history of the written word can be dated back 6,000 years.

源自中國鬼節的盂蘭盆節已經發展成家庭團聚的時刻。
Originating from the Chinese Ghost Festival, the Bon Festival has evolved into a time of family reunion.

她在一個充滿歌曲和南方神話故事的非裔美國家庭中長大。
She grew up in an African American family filled with songs and stories of Southern myths.

漢娜彩繪紋身（henna tattoos）可追溯至古代的亞洲及中東。
Henna tattoos can be traced back to ancient Asia and the Middle East.

這樣的祭典活動通常在全日本的公園、寺廟和其他公共場所舉行。
Such festive activities usually take place around Japan.

瑪麗為了描繪家譜，試著追溯歷代祖先至他們初抵達北美洲之時。
In order to draw her family tree, Mary tried to trace back their arrival in North America.

奧運每四年舉行一次。
The Olympic Games take place every four years.
