高中英文句型與翻譯例句集（第5-6章）

第5章 動名詞

5-1 practice / regret / mind / enjoy + V-ing 練習/後悔/介意/喜愛～

為了有最好的演出，啦啦隊隊員每天努力練習跳舞。
To give the best performance, the cheerleaders practiced dancing hard every day.

他後悔在他們需要援助時背棄他們。
He regretted having deserted them when they were in need of help.

你介意別在這兒吸菸嗎？
Would you mind not smoking here?

沒有人喜歡被別人看輕。
No one enjoys being looked down upon by others.

我無法想像被禁足一星期（的滋味）！
I can't imagine being grounded for one week!

我真的很感激他協助那些學生進行研究計畫。
I do appreciate his / him helping those students with the research project.

投資專家建議要分散風險。
The investment expert suggests not putting all your eggs in the same basket.

觀眾們看到喜劇演員滑稽的演出都大笑起來。
The audience burst out laughing at the comedian's funny performance.

他期待著與筆友見面。
He is looking forward to meeting his pen pal.

5-2 need / want / require + V-ing 需要（被）～

我們的房子在颱風中受損，屋頂需要修補。
Our house got damaged in the typhoon. The roof will need repairing.

你的靴子又髒又沾泥濘，它們真的需要清洗了。
Your boots are wet and muddy. They really want cleaning.

這件事情需要你小心謹慎處理。
The matter requires your careful handling.

這些植物正在枯萎，需要澆水。
The plants are withering; they need watering.

這把雕刻刀需要磨利。
The carving knife requires sharpening.

這問題值得考慮。
The problem deserves considering.

牛仔褲很耐洗。
Jeans bear washing.

這棟老房子需要裝修。
The old house is in need of decorating.

5-3 be worth + V-ing / N 值得～

凡是值得做的事就值得做到最好。
Whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing well.

這個古蹟以文藝復興時期的建築風格聞名，值得一遊。
Famous for its Renaissance architecture, the historic site is worth a visit.

這個委員會做出多項值得好好考慮的建議。
The committee made several suggestions that are worth considering.

這城市值得一遊。
The city is worth visiting.

這部二手車值一萬元。
The second-hand car is worth ten thousand dollars.

這首詩值得背誦。
The poem is worth reciting.

他是名符其實的英雄。
He is a hero worthy of the name.

她的善行值得讚揚。
Her good deed is worthy of praise.

你們對這議題進行冗長的討論是不值得的。
It is not worth your while to have a lengthy discussion over this issue.

擔任志工是值得的。
It is worthwhile working as a volunteer.

5-4 have fun / a good time + V-ing 做～很愉快
    have difficulty / trouble / problems / a hard time + V-ing 做～很困難

我們的外國朋友在臺灣各地旅遊並品嚐當地美食，玩得很愉快。
Our foreign friends had a good time touring around Taiwan and sampling local delicacies.

我在與安娜的溝通上遇到很大的困難，因為我不會說她的語言。
I had great difficulty communicating with Anna, for I couldn't speak her language.

這名轉學生毫無困難地融入新班級。
The transfer student had no problems fitting in at the new class.

他錯過了許多課，進度趕得很辛苦。
Having missed a lot of lessons, he had a hard time (in) catching up.

慢慢做你的畫，不用急。
Take your time doing your painting. There is no need to hurry.

學生們輪流用望遠鏡觀察天上的星星。
The students took turns using the telescope to observe the stars in the sky.

一聽到火災警報響起，他馬上向消防隊報案。
On hearing the fire alarm go off, he lost no time in reporting it to the fire department.

5-5 can't help + V-ing 不禁～，忍不住～

女孩一得知她的狗受困在火場中死了，就忍不住哭了出來。
The girl couldn't help crying on learning that her dog was trapped and killed in the fire.

被欺侮的男孩忍不住揮拳回擊保衛自己。
The bullied boy couldn't help shaking his fist and fighting back to defend himself.

我不禁後悔做出拒絕他們邀約的愚蠢決定。
I can't help regretting my stupid decision to turn down their invitation.

我深深懊悔發了脾氣，但我就是控制不了自己。
I deeply regret losing my temper. I just can't help it.

因為他已經花光所有零用錢，不得不向媽媽額外要錢。
Since he had run out of all his pocket money, he couldn't (help) but ask his mom for extra money.

被槍匪以槍指著，店員別無選擇只好把所有錢交出來。
Being pointed at with a gun by the robber, the clerk had no choice but to surrender all the money.

沒有人可以幫她看小孩，她只好帶他們也去參加喜宴。
With no one else to babysit her children, she could not choose but take them to the wedding feast as well.

這公司因為生意愈來愈差，不得不解僱一些員工。
The company can do nothing but dismiss some of the workers because of its declining business.

5-6 There is no + V-ing 無法～的，不可～的

不可否認的，網際網路已成為我們生活中一項不可或缺的便利工具。
There is no denying that the internet has become an indispensable convenience in our life.

由於競爭激烈，最後誰會贏得冠軍還無從得知。
There is no knowing who will win the championship in the end since the competition is so harsh.

喜好是無法解釋的。（即：人各有所好）
There is no accounting for taste.

無法知道接下來會發生什麼事。
There is no knowing what will happen next.

禁止停車。
No parking.

禁止抽菸。
No smoking.

禁止隨意丟紙屑。
No littering.

禁止游泳。
No swimming.

牆上有張告示寫著：請言勿室裡不准喝水或飲料。
On the wall is a sign saying: No drinking in the language laboratory.

5-7 do the + V-ing 做～（事情）
    go + V-ing 從事～

他們達成協議：她煮飯，他採買。
They make a deal: She does the cooking and he does the shopping.

蜜蜂藉著跳舞傳遞食物來源的訊息。
Bees transmit information on a food source by doing some dancing.

他們上週進行了油漆工作，使客廳的牆面煥然一新。
They did the painting last week to freshen up the walls of their living room.

瑞士是人們滑雪的好去處。
Switzerland is an ideal place for people to go skiing.

我有每天放學後去慢跑的習慣。
I make it a rule to go jogging after school every day.

洗衣服為 do the washing 或 do the laundry，而洗碗為 do the dishes。
go 之後亦可接複合字，但名詞的部分為單數，如 go mountain climbing（去爬山）、go bird-watching（去賞鳥）、go house-hunting（去找房子）等。

5-8 stop + V-ing 停止做～
    stop to + V 停下來去做～

得到一支棒棒糖後，小孩不哭了。
Given a lollipop, the kid stopped crying.

那孩子停下來看天上的飛機飛過。
The kid stopped to look up and watch an airplane passing by in the sky.

她試著用藍色系裝潢房間。
She tried decorating the room in blue.

她想盡辦法努力說服她爸買 iPhone 給她，但他拒絕了。
She tried very hard to persuade her father to buy her an iPhone, but he refused.

蒂娜忘記已經結過帳了。
Tina forgets paying the bill.

蒂娜忘了要付帳。
Tina forgot to pay the bill.

我不能忍受被冤枉。
I can't bear being wronged.

教授繼續解釋他的理論。
The professor continued explaining his theory.

5-9 On V-ing, S + V ～ 一～就～
    In V-ing, S + V ～ 在做～的時候～

一獲知球隊贏得冠軍，所有的球迷高興得又叫又跳。
On learning that the team won the championship, all the fans shouted and jumped with joy.

學習語言時，我們也學習到它的文化。
In learning a language, we learn about its culture as well.

吳教授一回國，就出任物理系系主任的職務。
On returning from abroad, Professor Wu took up the post of head of Physics Department.

面對生命中的種種挑戰時，她一直保有對上帝的信仰，從不放棄。
In facing all the challenges in life, she had always kept her faith in God and never given up.

那些問題學生一看到教官就跑開。
On seeing the military instructor, the troublesome students ran off.

茱蒂一想到要在公眾場合唱歌就緊張得要命。
On thinking of singing in public, Judy was shaking in her shoes.

第6章 介系詞

6-1 Despite / In spite of + N / V-ing, S + V ～ 儘管～，但～還是～

儘管不斷的努力，這個發明家還是失敗了。
Despite making continuous efforts, the inventor failed again.

他雖然是身障，但仍然參加馬拉松比賽。
In spite of his physical challenges, he took part in the marathon race.

儘管富有，這個億萬富翁是不快樂。
For all / Despite / In spite of his wealth, the billionaire is unhappy.

不顧/儘管雙親反對，她還是嫁了個窮小子。
Regardless of her parents' disapproval, she married this poor guy.

不管代價如何，這個富豪都要買下這座小島。
Regardless of expense, the wealthy man will buy the island.

儘管雨勢很大，救援隊伍還是四處尋找失蹤的旅客。
Although it rained heavily, the rescue team still searched high and low for the missing traveler.

6-2 Instead of + N / V-ing, S + V ～ 不是～，而是～

他沒有告知我發生了什麼事，而是選擇將我蒙在鼓裡。
Instead of informing me of what had happened, he chose to keep me in the dark.

現今大部分臺灣人吃愈來愈多的麵條和漢堡，而不是米飯。
Nowadays most people in Taiwan eat more and more noodles and hamburgers instead of rice.

我們沒有茶了，你改喝咖啡好不好？
We are running out of tea. Can you drink coffee instead?

耶誕夜時，我沒參加派對，而是留在家裡準備月考。
On Christmas Eve, I didn't attend any party. Instead, I stayed home preparing for the monthly exam.

至於飲料，我女友選了珍珠奶茶而非冰咖啡。
As for the drinks, my girlfriend chose pearl milk tea rather than iced coffee.

當他得知獲得第二名時，他覺得失望而非滿意。
When he learned that he came in second, he felt disappointed rather than satisfied.

我認為我們應該採取行動，而不是被動等待。
I think we should take action rather than wait passively.

6-3 Besides / In addition to + N / V-ing, S + V ～ 不但～，還有～也是～

除了做運動外，他也聽音樂來放鬆。
Besides taking exercise, he also listens to music for relaxation.

除了平板電腦外，智慧型手機也是最受年輕人歡迎的現代電子產品。
In addition to tablet computers, smartphones are the most popular modern gadgets among young people.

我不渴。此外，我也很少喝飲料。
I am not thirsty. Besides, I seldom drink beverages.

香蕉很美味，而且富含維他命。
Bananas are tasty. In addition, they are rich in vitamins.

地主決定在湖邊蓋別墅。
The landlord decided to build a villa beside the lake.

這裡的每個人都受到邀請，只有我例外。
Everyone here was invited except me.

除了我以外，這裡的每個人也都受到邀請。
Everyone here was invited in addition to me.

除了眼睛較小外，基本上她是個美人兒。
Apart from small eyes, she is basically a beauty.

除了智慧型手機外，他也把皮夾留在公車上忘記帶走。
Aside from a smartphone, he also left his wallet behind on the bus.

6-4 with a view to / with an eye to + N / V-ing 為了～

他打工是為了自己負擔學費完成大學學業。
He worked part-time with a view to paying his way through college.

為了省錢買新房子，這對夫妻減少日常開銷。
With an eye to saving money to buy a new house, this couple cut down on their daily expenses.

老闆要求員工準時，目的是要提昇效率。
The boss demanded that the workers be on time with the intention of increasing efficiency.

這小孩到公園去，希望能找回他走失的狗。
The child went to the park in the hope of finding his lost dog.

大部分學生為了通過考試而熬夜讀書。
In order to pass the exams, most students sit up late studying.

這個人為了要養家而日夜工作。
The man worked day and night so as to support his family.

為了能保持健康，她規律地健身。
She works out on a regular basis in order that she may stay in shape.

他每週都購買樂透彩券，希望能中大獎。
He buys lottery tickets every week in the hope that he might hit the jackpot.

6-5 because of / owing to / as a result of / on account of / due to + N 由於～，因～的緣故

由於文化差異，世界各地的人對於時間的概念，各有不同的看法。
Because of cultural differences, people in different parts of the world have different opinions about the concept of time.

由於大雨的緣故，我們的露營延期了，大家都覺得很失望。
Owing to the heavy rain, our camping was postponed and everyone felt disappointed.

由於經濟衰退，很多員工都被解僱了。
As a result of economic recession, many employees were laid off.

他父親突然過世，他環遊世界的計畫也因此中斷。
His plan to travel around the world was interrupted on account of the sudden death of his father.

這次墜機是由於人為疏失。
This plane crash was due to human error.

多虧你的建議，使我進步。
Thanks to your suggestions, I can make improvement.

因為他缺席，所以我必須接手他的任務。
I had to take over his duties because of his absence.

很多鳥因為禽流感爆發而病死。
A great number of birds died as a result of the outbreak of avian influenza.

禽流感爆發，因此很多鳥都死了。
Avian influenza broke out. As a result, a great number of birds died.

6-6 因 + result in / bring about / lead to / contribute to / give rise to + 果 （原因）造成，導致（結果）

經濟蕭條導致失業率上升，而失業率上升接著又帶來更多社會問題。
Economic depression results in the increase of unemployment rate, which in turn brings about more social problems.

吸菸會導致肺癌是個已知的事實。
It is a known fact that smoking contributes to lung cancer.

這位政治人物的突然辭世引發許多諸傳，其中一個便是他涉及這樁醜聞。
The sudden death of the politician gave rise to several rumors, one of which was that he was involved in the scandal.

酒駕可能會造成意外。
Drunk driving may cause accidents.

他的魯莽投資及判斷錯誤導致破產。
His bold investment and wrong judgment resulted in his bankruptcy.

他破產了，因為他魯莽投資且判斷錯誤。
He went bankrupt as a result of his bold investment and wrong judgment.

6-7 To one's + 情緒名詞, S + V 令人感到～的是，～

令我驚訝的是，這條睡著的狗突然醒來對我吠叫。
To my surprise, the sleeping dog suddenly awoke and barked at me.

令大家鬆了一口氣的是，走失的登山客終於安然無恙歸來。
To everyone's relief, the missing mountain climber finally came back safe and sound.

令他們感到非常悲傷的是，他們的寵物狗被卡車輾死。
Much to their sorrow, their pet dog was run over by a truck and then died.

令他大失所望的是，在中國的所有投資最終失敗收場。
To his great disappointment, all his investment in China turned out to be a failure.

就我所知，中國是人口最多的國家。
To (the best of) my knowledge, China is the most populous country in the world.

我記得這位女士總是身穿白衣。
To the best of my memory, the lady was always in white.

他盡其所能落實這個計畫。
He tried to carry out this project to the best of his ability.

6-8 of + 抽象名詞 = adj.
    with + 抽象名詞 = adv.

別把這些箱子丟掉，我確信有朝一日它們會派上用場的。
Please don't throw the boxes away. I am sure they will be of use someday.

這個問題一點都不難，你可以很容易地想出答案的。
This question is not difficult at all. You can figure out the answer with ease.

學外語時，字典總是很有幫助。
When we learn a foreign language, a dictionary will always be of help.

她是個好老師，總是耐心地教導學生。
She is a good teacher who always teaches the students with patience.

這些數字應該謹慎處理。
These numbers should be handled with caution.

他沒沒無聞。也就是說，他是個無足輕重的人。
He is nobody. That is, he is a man of no importance.

這些化學藥品有劇毒，應當慎處理。
These chemicals are very poisonous, and they should be handled with great care.

他說他是意外摔壞手機。但我認為他是故意的，因為他想要新手機已經很久了。
He said that he broke his cellphone by accident. However, I thought he did it on purpose, for he had longed for a new one for a long time.

6-9 under + N 正被～中
    on + N 正在～中

這個城市的捷運系統仍在施工中。
The Mass Rapid Transit system in this city is still under construction.

身為一間國際公司的總執行長，他常到世界各地洽公。
As a CEO of an international company, he often travels around the world on business.

這座古堡正在整修中，所以暫時關閉。
The old castle is under repair now, so it is temporarily closed.

由於經濟惡化，失業率正不斷上升。
Because of the worsening economy, the unemployment rate is on the rise.

不論在工作或玩樂時，他總是很積極，很想贏。
Whether at work or at play, he is always very aggressive and is eager to win.

這女孩一看到令心的老鼠，馬上驚恐地衝出她的房間。
At the sight of a disgusting rat, the little girl rushed out of her room in horror.

6-10 與介系詞 but 有關的片語：
     nothing but = only 僅僅，只是
     anything but = not ~ at all 絕不是
     all but = almost 幾乎

這個計畫只會導致更多金錢的浪費。
This project will bring about nothing but more waste of money.

這間購物商場賣的商品價位一點也不便宜。
The commodities sold in this shopping mall are anything but cheap.

天氣惡劣，這些登山客幾乎無法攻上這座山的山頂。
The weather was so terrible that it was all but impossible for the climbers to reach the summit of this mountain.

這個人只是個傻瓜蛋。
The man is nothing but a fool.

這個人一點都不傻。
The man is anything but a fool.

這個人幾乎就是個傻蛋。
The man is all but a fool.

洗完澡後，我老爸什麼事也不做，躺在沙發上看電視。
After taking a bath, my father did nothing but lie on the sofa watching TV.

這個籃球隊的全體隊員只希望能再度封王。
All members of this basketball team wanted nothing but to win championship again.

在空閒時間，我只喜歡玩線上遊戲。
In my free time, I enjoy nothing but playing online games.