高中英文句型與翻譯例句集（第7-8章）

第7章 It的用法

7-1 it 做虛主詞（I）：It is + adj. + (for sb.) + to V

年輕人需要盡量多讀好書，這是必要的。
It is necessary for young people to read as many good books as possible.

你上班要準時，這是重要的。
It is important for you to get to work on time.

我們每個人都必須準時準交作業，這是基本而必要的。
It is essential for each of us to hand in our homework on time.

你要準時到達，這是很重要的。
It is significant for you to arrive on time.

你要根據事實來填申請表，這是重要的。
It is crucial for you to fill out the application form according to facts.

他很難相處。
It is hard to get along with him.

7-2 it 做虛主詞（II）：It is + adj. + of + sb. + to V

他棄養他的寵物狗，真是殘忍。
It is cruel of him to abandon his pet dog.

她在公車上讓座給老人，真是好心。
It was kind of her to give her seat to the elderly man on the bus.

他用特別有禮的形式和長輩講話，真是有禮。
It is well-mannered of him to use extra-polite forms in talking to his elders.

他這樣當面羞辱你，真是很壞心。
It is unkind of him to insult you to your face.

她在別人背後說人壞話，真是沒禮貌。
It is rude of her to speak ill of others behind their backs.

他考試作弊，真是不誠實。
It was dishonest of him to cheat on the exam.

定期做運動對你是很好的。
It is good for you to take regular exercise.

年輕人多讀好書是好的。
It is good for young people to read as many good books as possible.

你真是心地善良，當我有麻煩時就會對我伸出援手。
It is good of you to give me a hand when I am in trouble.

她捐了一大筆錢給孤兒院，真是好心。
It is good of her to donate a large sum of money to the orphanage.

7-3 It is said / believed / reported / rumored ~ that + S + V
據說／一般相信／據報導／謠傳～等

有傳言說街尾的老舊宅第住著一個幽靈般的鬼影。
It is said that the old mansion at the end of the street is haunted by a ghostly figure.

謠傳他被他的情敵所殺。
It is rumored that he was killed by his rival.

大家相信女人活得比男人久。
It is believed that women enjoy longer lives than men.

據說現代的女人過著比較緊張的生活。
It is said that women live a more stressful life nowadays.

謠傳他中了樂透的頭彩了。
He was rumored to hit the jackpot.

根據報導全球的溫度愈來愈高。
It is reported that global temperature is getting higher and higher.

據說他年輕時是個有錢人。
It is said that he was a wealthy man when he was young.

謠傳該大亨被恐怖分子綁架了。
Rumor has it that the tycoon was abducted by the terrorists.

7-4 it 做虛主詞（III）：It is a / the / one's + N + that ~

店家在店裡擺魚缸招財，這是常見的做法。
It is a common practice that shopkeepers put a fish tank in the shops to incur wealth.

這是普世的真理，創新推動各領域的進步。
It is a universal truth that innovation drives progress in every field.

我相信只有在努力之後才會有成功。
It is my belief that success comes only after hard work.

他發現這種光線可以穿透過堅硬的牆。
It was his discovery that the rays can penetrate solid walls.

EQ 高的人比較可能成功，這是個既定的事實。
It is an established fact that those with a high EQ are more likely to succeed.

女人活得比男人長久，這是事實。
It is a fact that women live longer than men.

地球繞著太陽轉，這是不爭的事實。
It is an undisputed fact that the earth revolves around the sun.

當時他在實驗室中所做出的是個大發現。
It was a great discovery that he made in the lab at that time.

我們相信他是個很有領袖魅力的領導人。
It is our belief that he is a charismatic leader.

7-5 it 做虛受詞：
find / believe / make + it + adj. + (for + sb.) + to + V

他跑得這麼快，以至於我發現要追上他很難。
He ran so fast that I found it hard to catch up with him.

我相信像她這麼善良的女孩，不可能在我背後說這麼殘忍的話。
I believed it impossible for a kind girl like her to say such cruel things behind my back.

我們覺得要準時交作業是很難的。
We find it hard to hand in our assignment on time.

她覺得他幾乎不可能會接受她的愛。
She thought it almost impossible for him to accept her love.

男孩們發現在水坑裡玩水非常有趣。
The boys found it great fun to splash about in puddles.

我認為與拒絕傾聽的人爭論是浪費時間。
I believe it a waste of time to argue with someone who refuses to listen.

為了保持健康，她把每天運動列為首要之務。
To stay fit, she made it a priority to exercise everyday.

我養成每天都背十個單字的習慣。
I make it a rule to keep ten new words in mind everyday.

我們應該養成習慣，將四周環境保持整齊清潔。
We should make it a point to keep our surroundings clean and tidy.

捷運使得人們更加方便地在這個城市四處行動。
The MRT makes it possible for people to move around the city more conveniently.

7-6 take it for granted that ~ 視～為理所當然

我們常以為我們可以理所當然地一直活著。
We often take it for granted that we can live on and on.

有些人認為他們理所當然應該被善待。
Some people take it for granted that they should be treated well.

認為自己被愛是理所當然的人，遲早得要付出昂貴的代價。
Those who take it for granted that they should be loved have to pay a dear price sooner or later.

不要將父母的愛視為理所當然。
Don't take parental love for granted.

人們常視友誼為理所當然，而很少認真看待它。
People often take friendship for granted and seldom take it seriously.

不要認為父母會永遠照顧你是理所當然的。
Don't take it for granted that your parents will always take care of you.

他常理所當然地認為他在同儕中很出色。
He often takes it for granted that he stands out among his peers.

他常聽媽媽說的話為聖旨。
He often takes what his mother says as the last word.

你得把這樣的訓練當成是要做好這份工作的必要條件之一。
You have to take such training as one of the requirements to do the job well.

因為會說流利的英文，他常被誤認為是美國人。
Being able to speak English fluently, he is often taken for an American.

他真的是名符其實的醫生，不要誤以為他是個庸醫。
He is a doctor worthy of the name. Don't take him for a quack.

7-7 It is no use + V-ing ～是沒有用的

覆水難收。（後悔無用）
It is no use crying over spilt milk.

想要說服他來買我們的產品是沒有用的。
It is no use trying to talk him into buying our product.

想改變他的心意是無用的。
It is (of) no use trying to change his mind.

想要在清晨叫醒他是沒有用的。
It is (of) no use to try to wake him up in the early morning.

既然他一直都這麼用功，沒有必要擔心他是否會通過考試。
Since he has been working so hard, there is no need to worry about whether he can pass the exam.

他已經慢跑跑一個多小時了，難怪他看起來臉色很蒼白。
He has been jogging for more than an hour. It is no wonder that he looks pale.

他極度地用功。無疑地，他一定會進入他理想的大學。
He works extremely hard. There is no doubt that he will enter his ideal university.

不用說，像他這麼用功的學生一定可以進入他理想的大學就讀的。
It goes without saying that a hard-working student like him will be admitted to his ideal university.

7-8 It occurs to / hits / strikes + sb. + that + 子句
突然想到～

當我走在路上的時候，突然想到媽媽叫我幫她跑腿辦事。
While I was walking on the street, it occurred to me that Mother had asked me to run an errand for her.

你有沒有想過要充分利用時間，而不是虛度光陰呢？
Did it ever occur to you to take full advantage of your time instead of idling around?

他突然想到他應該更認真看待這整件事。
It hit him that he should have taken the whole thing more seriously.

我從未想過用視力來豐富我的人生。
It never occurred to me to use my sight to add fullness to my life.

你曾想過要更善於利用你的時間嗎？
Has it ever occurred to you that you should make better use of your time?

當她搭火車的時候，她突然想到要寫一本童書。
While she was taking the train, she hit upon the idea of writing a children's book.

當我聽他演講時，我突然想到要自己獨力研究這個議題。
While I was listening to his lecture, I struck upon the idea of conducting a study of the issue on my own.

我突然頓悟到，教育不應該只是記憶一些事實而已。
It dawned on me that education should be more than remembering facts.

一個創新的點子閃進他的腦海。
An innovative idea flashed into his mind.

7-9 It takes (sb.) time + to V 花時間
It costs (sb.) money + to V 花錢

那個建築師花了將近兩年的時間，才設計出那棟建築物。
It took the architect almost two years to design the building.

他花了一大筆錢去買那本稀有的書本書。
It cost him a fortune to buy the rare book.

那個塔樓平花了十年的時間來建造。
The construction of the tower took almost ten years.

那棟別墅花了他一大筆錢。
The villa cost him a fortune.

她把零用錢全部花在化妝品上。
She spent all her pocket money on cosmetics.

許多青少年花太多時間玩線上遊戲。
Many teenagers spend too much time playing online games.

你不應該浪費太多錢在這種奢侈品上。
You are not supposed to waste too much money on such luxuries.

你想改變他的心意，根本是白費力氣。
You are wasting your breath trying to change his mind.

7-10 It pays + to V ～是值得的

擴充你的字彙是值得的。
It pays to enlarge your vocabulary.

從事義務志工的社會服務是值得的。
It pays to do volunteer social work.

花時間學習能提升職業前景的新技能是值得的。
It pays to invest time in learning new skills that can enhance your career prospects.

對窮困的人伸出援手是值得的。
It is rewarding to give a hand to the poor and the needy.

像你們這樣的年輕人，多讀好書是很值得的。
It is worthwhile for young people like you to read as many good books as possible.

令我尷尬的是，當我下計程車時，我忘了付錢給司機。
To my embarrassment, when I got out of the taxi, I forgot to pay the cabbie.

即使他父親被裁員了，他還是設法半工半讀念完大學。
Even though his father had been laid off, he still managed to pay his way through college.

你花了多少錢買那本小說？
How much did you pay for the novel?

第8章 名詞與代名詞

8-1 One ~，(another ~，) and the other ~
一個～，（一個～，）而另一個～

我的父母其中一個是警官，另一個是護士。
One of my parents is a police officer; the other is a nurse.

王先生有三個兒子。一個住臺北，一個住臺南，而另一個住高雄。
Mr. Wang has three sons. One lives in Taipei, another lives in Tainan, and the other lives in Kaohsiung.

學英文有許多方法。有些人聽英文歌，有些與外國人聊天，還有些閱讀英文小說。
There are many ways to learn English. Some people listen to English songs, others chat with foreigners, and still others read English novels.

這個班級由十五個海外學生組成。有些來自歐洲，有些來自亞洲，其餘來自美洲。
The class is made up of 15 overseas students. Some come from Europe, others / some from Asia and the others from America.

有些人喜歡爵士樂，而有些人喜歡古典樂。
Some people like jazz while some / others like classical music.

有些水用來灌溉，而有些水則作飲用水。
Some of the water was used for irrigation, and some was used as drinking water.

有些學生搭公車上學而有些（學生）走路（上學）。
Some students go to school by bus while others on foot.

8-2 from one + N + to another 一個又一個～
from + N + to + N

命名的習俗因文化而異。
The customs of giving names are different from culture to culture.

這名窮困的男孩每天早上必須挨家挨戶送報紙。
Every morning, the poor boy has to deliver newspapers from door to door.

每個人的品味各有不同，而且人各有所好，無法解釋。
Tastes differ from person to person, and there is no accounting for tastes.

經濟不景氣促使小型企業紛紛倒閉。
Economic depression has caused small businesses to collapse one after another.

知道是一回事，而去做又是另外一回事。
To know is one thing, and to do is quite another.

我拒絕了這份工作。一則薪資不高，再則得輪夜班。
I turned down the job offer. For one thing, the pay is not high. For another, it involves working a night shift.

這份工作一方面很有挑戰性，我可以學到新的東西；但另一方面得常在外頭奔走，不能陪伴家人。
On the one hand, the job is challenging and I can learn something new. On the other hand, it involves traveling a lot and keeps me away from my family.

8-3 by oneself 單獨、獨自、獨力地
on one's own

小木屋孤零零地座落在田中央。
The wooden hut stands in the middle of the field all by itself.

老師鼓勵學生獨力解決問題。
The teacher encouraged the students to solve the problems on their own.

這系列的讀本是專供學前孩童自行閱讀的。
The series of readers are intended for preschool kids to read by themselves.

就讓她一個人靜一下。她想獨自待一會兒。
Just leave her alone. She'd like to be by herself for a while.

令這對父母驚訝的是，他們的兩個孩子還不滿十歲，竟自己獨力籌辦了這個派對。
It surprised the parents that their two children under ten should have organized the party all by themselves.

梅根一直夢想擁有一間屬於自己的房間。
Megan has always dreamed of having a room of her own.

他的評論不代表我們全體觀點。他只是發表個人意見。
His comments are not representative of the views of us all. He was speaking for himself.

這位發明家發明了會自己運轉的掃地機器。
The inventor has invented a cleaning machine that runs of itself.

義工工作本身就很有價值。
Volunteer work is rewarding in itself.

8-4 Those ~，and these ~ 前者～，後者～（複數）
That ~，and this ~ 前者～，後者～（單數）

有些醫生建議以豆漿代替牛奶，因為前者比後者健康。
Some doctors suggest substituting soy milk for milk, for that is healthier than this.

真正的朋友與酒肉朋友的分別在於當我們需要幫助時，前者陪伴我們，後者卻背叛我們。
True friends are different from fair-weather friends in that, in our hour of need, those stand by our side while these turn their back on us.

結交新朋友，但勿忘老朋友；前者是銀，後者是金。
Make new friends, but keep the old; those are silver, these are gold.

我不敢奢求你的吻，也不敢乞求你的微笑，唯恐得償所願時，我會太自滿驕做。
I dare not ask a kiss, I dare not beg a smile, Lest having that, or this, I might grow proud the while.

JK 羅琳和丹·布朗，布朗兩人都是知名的暢銷作家。前者寫了《哈利波特》系列，後者寫了《達文西密碼》。
J.K. Rowling and Dan Brown are both famous best-selling writers. The former wrote the Harry Potter series, while the latter wrote The Da Vinci Code.

美德和邪惡不同，前者帶來和平，後者導致痛苦。
Virtue and vice are two different things: the one leads to peace while the other to misery.

那公司成功開發ChatGPT後，許多成功案例隨之而來。
Many successful attempts followed that of the company which developed ChatGPT.

手工餅乾比食品工廠裡機器生產的餅乾好吃。
Handmade cookies are tastier than those made by machine in food factories.

8-5 the + adj.：the poor / the rich 窮人／有錢人

德蕾莎修女奉獻她的一生給窮人與那些不被照顧的人。
Mother Teresa devoted all her life to the needy and those who are uncared for.

弱肉強食的叢林法則似乎在人類社會中也適用。
The law of the jungle that the weak fall prey to the strong seems applicable in human society as well.

他是個虔誠的基督徒，相信好人死後上天堂。
He, being a pious Christian, believes that the good go to heaven when they die.

那場車禍中，一名男子死亡，另一名受重傷。傷者立刻被送往當地的醫院。
In the car crash, a man was killed and another seriously injured. The injured was immediately sent to the local hospital.

許多人參加這場喪禮，對逝者表達悲傷與哀悼之情。
Many people attended the funeral to express grief and mourning for the departed.

霸凌所影響的不只是被霸凌的人，還有他的朋友、他的同學及整個社會。
Bullying affects not only the bullied but his friends and classmates and the whole society.

天有不測風雲。
The unexpected always happens in our life.

在生命的進程中，我們必須好壞都能接受。
In the course of life, we need to take the rough with the smooth.

8-6 N(s) + such as ~ 像～、例如～
such + N(s) + as ~

青少年對於像林書豪和周杰倫這一類名人的成功故事十分著迷。
Teenagers are fascinated by the success stories of celebrities such as Jeremy Lin and Jay Chou.

中國人相信命名和擇吉日這一類的習俗會帶給人好運。
The Chinese believe that such customs as name giving and selecting an auspicious day can bring good luck to people.

製造飛行器時使用輕金屬，例如鋁，有利於減輕重量。
In making aircrafts, the use of a light metal, such as aluminum, is excellent for lowering weight.

曼蒂喜歡吃水果，例如芒果、木瓜和鳳梨。
Mandy likes to eat such fruit(s) as mangos, papayas, or / and pineapples.

傑森喜愛戶外活動，例如健行和釣魚。
Jason enjoys outdoor activities such as hiking and fishing.

許多國家例如印度和菲律賓，經常發生地震。
Many countries, for example, India and the Philippines, have a lot of earthquakes.

年輕人通常喜歡社群網路工具。例如，他們喜歡用IG或臉書來和朋友們保持聯繫。
Young people are usually attracted by social networking tools. For instance, they like to use Instagram or Facebook to keep contact with their friends.

8-7 a large number of ~ 很多的～
a great amount of ~

很多人參加市政府前的元旦升旗典禮。
A large number of people attended the New Year flag-raising ceremony before the City Hall.

他投資了許多錢在股票中，結果卻血本無歸。
He invested a great amount of money in stocks, only to get nothing back.

琳達近來的作品受到不少好評。
Linda received a fair amount of favorable criticism on her recent works.

許多青少年公開贊成解除頭髮長度的禁令。
Many a teenager comes out in favor of the lifting of the ban on hair length.

由於法律要求機車騎士戴安全帽，近年來機車事故死亡人數已經減少許多。
The number of scooter fatalities in recent years has fallen greatly because motorcyclists are required by law to wear a helmet.

有幾個學生違反校規遭逮。
A number of students were caught breaking school rules.