高中英文句型與翻譯例句集（第9-10章）

第9章 關係詞

9-1 those/people/they who + V ~ 凡是～的人都～

在這個城市，凡是住郊區的人都得通勤上班。
In this city, those who live in the suburbs have to commute to work.

凡是參加這場比賽的人都將得到一份紀念品。
People who take part in the contest will get a souvenir.

那些堅持撐過挑戰的人是最終能實現目標的人。
They who persevere through challenges are the ones who achieve their goals in the end.

天助自助者。
God helps those who help themselves.

我不喜歡留有鬍子的人，因為那看起來很嚇人。
I don't like them who have beards because that looks scaring.

研究者正在探詢更多的替代能源，最好是那些不用依賴糧食作物的能源。
Researchers are prospecting for more alternative sources of energy, preferably those that don't rely on food crops.

9-2 whoever + V ~ 任何～的人、凡～的人

凡是想參加此活動的人都可以在此簽名。
Whoever wants to participate in the activity can sign his name here.

任何染上傳染性疾病的人都應該避免到公共場所去。
Whoever was infected with the contagious disease should avoid going to the public places.

請將這個好消息分享給任何想知道的人。
Please share the good news with whoever wants to know about it.

你可以把禮物送給你喜歡的任何人。
You can send this present to whomever you like.

不論誰受邀參加派對，主辦者都非常歡迎。
Whoever is invited to the party, the host will welcome him very much.

任何毆打我弟弟的人都不能和我一起玩。
Whoever hits my brother can never play with me.

不論誰毆打我弟弟，我都不會原諒他。
Whoever hits my brother, I will never forgive him.

9-3 whatever + S + V ~ 任何～的事或物

對我而言，你所做的任何選擇都是最好的選擇。
Whatever you choose is the best choice for me.

當病人完全康復後，他就可以吃任何他喜歡吃的東西。
When the patient fully recovered from his illness, he could eat whatever he liked.

對他來說，任何他女朋友買的禮物就是最棒的禮物。
The best gift for him is whatever his girlfriend bought.

無論結果是什麼，他已經盡力表達他的意見了。
Whatever the result may be, he has done his best to express his opinions.

國王吃的任何東西都應該仔細檢查過。
Whatever the king will eat should be carefully checked.

無論你要吃什麼，你必須記得先煮熟。
Whatever you eat, you have to remember to have it cooked in advance.

9-4 what = the thing that（先行詞 + 關係代名詞）

我要的不過就是一個幸福的家庭。
What I want is nothing but a happy family.

我相信她說的話。
I believe what she said.

這正好是我需要的東西。
This is just what I need.

直到我瞭解他的為人，我才愛上他。
I didn't fall in love with him until I realized what he was.

若想知道他是否買得起這棟房子，你可以調查他有多少財富。
To know if he can afford this house, you may investigate what he has.

我們不應該以一個人的財富來判斷這個人，而是要以他的為人來判斷。
We should not judge a man by what he has but by what he is.

這家店的裝潢不錯，此外，廚師煮的菜也很好吃。
The store is well-decorated; what's more, the food the chef cooked is delicious.

村民們沒有地方可住；更糟的是，他們將沒有食物可吃。
The villagers have no place to live in; what's worse, they will have no food to eat soon.

在這本小說裡，不懂魔法的人就是所謂的「麻瓜」。
In this novel, people who don't know magic are what is called "Muggles."

一半因為生病，一半因為懶惰，所以他的作業遲交了。
What with sickness and (what with) laziness, his homework has been delayed.

半用賄賂，半用威脅，媽媽把她女兒的頭髮給剪掉了。
What by bribe and (what by) threat, the mother had her daughter's hair cut.

9-5 All (that)/What + S + have to do is + (to) + V~ ～必須要做的事就是～

依我之見，我們學生必須要做的事就是盡力通過考試。
In my opinion, what we students have to do is do our best to pass the exam.

她所需要做的是在本週末前提交報告。
What she has to do is submit the report by the end of the week.

為了解英文單字的意義和用法，你必須要做的事就是查字典。
To know the meanings and usages of the new English words, all you have to do is to consult the dictionary.

我所能做的就是給我兒子一個擁抱，讓他覺得好過些。
What I can do is give my son a hug to make him feel better.

你所需要做的就是按下按鈕，機器就會啟動了。
All you need to do is press the button and the machine will be activated.

9-6 in/by/with + which ~

警方力勸民眾遠離兇殺案常發生的危險街道。
The police urged that people keep away from the dangerous streets in which the murders often happened.

往前走，我們可以看到村民們用來渡河的船。
Going further, we may see the ferry by which the villagers crossed the river.

這是他用來畫這幅享譽盛名畫作的畫筆。
This is the kind of brush with which he painted the prestigious picture.

在我們班上，她是大家都喜歡和她聊天的女孩。
In our class, she is the girl with whom everyone likes to talk.

說實話，我不喜歡她，因為她太注重她的外表。
To tell the truth, I don't like her in that she is a girl putting too much emphasis on her appearance.

9-7 ~, some of whom/which + V ~ 其中有些～

這個班有四十個學生，其中有些已經學英文超過五年了。
There are forty students in this class, some of whom have learned English for more than five years.

這些蘋果已經放在桌上好幾天了，其中有些甚至都爛掉了。
These apples have been put on the table for a couple of days, some of which are even rotten.

彼得喜歡飼養寵物，其中有些是鳥類。
Peter likes to raise pets, some of which are birds.

隨著經濟的發展，許多工廠蓋在山區，其中有些地方通常是野生動物的棲息地。
With the development of economy, lots of plants are built up in the mountain areas, some of which wild animals usually live in.

那些學生常被取笑，其中有些人甚至是同學喜歡欺負的對象。
Those students are often teased, some of whom their classmates like to bully.

9-8 ~ the place where + S + V + ~ ～的地方
~ the time when + S + V + ~ ～的時間
~ the reason why + S + V + ~ ～的原因

這個作家所居住的地方就在紐約市中心。
The place where the writer lives is in the downtown area of the New York City.

這男孩忘不了和同學相處的那段時間。
The boy could not forget the time when he got together with his classmates.

她曾被狗攻擊過。這就是她怕狗的原因。
She was once attacked by a dog. That's the reason why she is afraid of dogs.

他希望能夠回到他出生的地方。
He hoped to go back to the place where he was born.

這個遊民待在一個沒有人想去的地方。
This homeless man stayed in a place where nobody would like to go.

這是他們慶祝戰敗敵人得勝的日子。
This is the day when they celebrate their victory over their enemy.

坦白說，我無法解釋他有這種行為的原因。
To speak frankly, I can't explain the reason why he has this kind of behavior.

這就是我兄弟住的公寓。
This is the apartment where my brothers live.

對她而言，她很難忘記雙親被恐怖分子殺害的那一天。
It is quite difficult for her to forget the day when her parents were killed by the terrorists.

隨著科技的發展，人們生活的方式已經有很大的改變。
With the development of technology, the ways (that / in which) people lead their lives have greatly changed.

9-9 ~ no ~ but ~ ～沒有～不～

沒有母親不愛自己的孩子。
There is no mother but loves her children.

這個電影迷常吹噓說沒有他沒看過的電影。
This moviegoer often boasts that there is no movie but he has seen.

我們認識的人當中鮮有不關心環境污染問題的。
We know few people but are concerned about the problem of pollution in our environment.

幾乎沒有她不會唱的歌。
There was scarcely a song but she knew how to sing.

我每次到臺北一定都會搭捷運。
I never go to Taipei without taking the MRT.

9-10 ~ more + N ~ than + V ~/S + V ~ ～比～還多～

令我們驚訝的是，這項環境保育計畫需要的錢比預期的還多。
To our surprise, this environmental conservation program needed more money than was expected.

醫生說吃比你所需要還多的食物是不健康的。
Doctors said that to eat more food than you need is not healthy.

這場活動比預期需要更多的準備。
The event required more preparation than had been foreseen.

他這趟旅程花了比他最初計劃還要更多的時間。
His journey took more time than he had originally planned.

第10章 As的句型

10-1 As is known to all, S + V ~ 眾所皆知～

眾所皆知，安迪在附近河裡救出一個快溺斃的孩子。
As is known to all, Andy saved a boy from being drowned in the nearby river.

眾所皆知，憑著她堅強的意志力，海倫‧凱勒成功地克服了因眼盲及耳聾造成的障礙。
As is known to all, with her strong will, Helen Keller successfully overcame the hindrances resulting from being blind and deaf.

我們學校的人都知道，這個學生代表學校在游泳比賽中得到第一名。
As is known to the people in our school, this student on behalf of our school won first prize in the swimming contest.

眾所皆知，規律運動有益健康。
Regular exercise is good for health, as is known to all.

就如我告訴過你，這個慶典將持續一週。
The festivity, as I told you, would last for a week.

這棟建物，如預定的時間，將在月底前完成。
This building, as (it is) scheduled, will be completed by the end of the month.

10-2 As a saying goes, "S + V ~." 正如俗話所說的～

正如俗話所說的，「不勞則無獲」。
As a saying goes, "No pains, no gains."

正如俗話所說的，「活到老，學到老」。
As a saying goes, "It is never too late to learn."

他總是保持著積極的態度，正如俗話所說，相信「每朵烏雲都鑲著銀邊」（情況再壞，總有一線希望）。
He always keeps a positive attitude, as a saying goes, believing that "every cloud has a silver lining."

正如俗話所說的，「屋漏偏逢連夜雨」。
As a saying goes, "It never rains but it pours."

正如俗話所說的，「有志者事竟成」。
As a saying goes, "Where there is a will, there is a way."

10-3 As for + N / V-ing, S + V ~ 至於～、關於～、對～而言

對我來說，獨力撫養三個孩子壓力很大。
As for me, raising three children alone is a lot of stress.

關於使用金錢方面，青少年應該學習如何收支平衡。
As for making use of money, teenagers should learn how to make ends meet.

我朋友沒有提到關於她和她先生吵架的原因。
My friend didn't say anything as to the reason why she had an argument with his husband.

當事情發生時，公司裡除了老闆外，沒有人能決定該怎麼做。
When things happened, nobody in this company but the boss could decide (as to) what to do.

老師要他的學生按大小及顏色將木條分類。
The teacher wanted his students to classify the rods as to size and color.

這位名教授將發表有關環境保護議題的演講。
This noted professor is going to deliver a speech concerning the environmental protection.

10-4 S + be動詞 + as + adj./V + as + adj./V + as + S + can 盡可能地～

她盡可能地堅定果決，期望在職涯中獲得成功。
She is as determined as she can be to succeed in her career.

為了考試得高分，你最好盡可能用功。
To get good grades in exams, you had better study as hard as you can.

這位女士盡量使自己在舞會上看起來漂亮。
The lady made herself look as beautiful as she could at the party.

如果你方便的話，請盡早到辦公室。
If it is convenient for you, please come to the office as early as you can.

如果要維持健康，要盡可能的少吃肉。
Eat as little meat as you can if you want to stay healthy.

為了增進知識，要盡可能多讀一些書。
To gain knowledge, read as many books as you can.

他試著把船造得愈大愈好。
He was trying to build as large a boat as he could.

10-5 ~ as soon as ~ 一～就～
~ as long as ~ 只要～
~ as far as ~ 就～、盡～

考試的結果在網路上一公布，我的家人就會知道。
My family will know the result of the exam as soon as it is announced on the internet.

只要你不說，沒有人會知道這個秘密。
Nobody will know this secret as long as you don't tell.

就我所知，他妹妹仍是單身。
His sister is still single as far as I know.

貝蒂一掛斷電話就出去逛街了。
As soon as Betty hung up the phone, she went shopping.

這女孩一聽到這個好消息就忍不住喜極而泣。
The girl could not help crying with joy as soon as she heard the good news.

對她而言，她才不在乎剛惹她生氣的男友發生什麼事。
As far as she is concerned, she doesn't care what will happen to his boyfriend, who just pissed her off.

相信我，這份工作可以和那份工作一樣很快就完成了。
Believe me. This work can be finished as soon as that one.

這條繩子和那條一樣長。
This rope is as long as that one.

在這場馬拉松賽事中，參賽者必須跑到下一個城鎮那麼遠。
In this marathon, the competitors have to run as far as the next town.

我走不了三英里那麼遠。
I can't walk so far as three miles.

10-6 S + think of/look upon/refer to A as B 把A視為B、認為A是B

琳達把她的母親視為生命中最重要的人。
Linda thought of her mother as the most important person in her life.

我的同學們認為瑪姬是個好相處的女孩。
My classmates looked upon Maggie as a girl with whom we can get along well.

大部分的科學家認為溫室效應是全球暖化的原因之一。
Most scientists refer to greenhouse effect as one of the reasons for global warming.

許多高中生認為英文很重要。
Many senior high school students think of English as very important.

人們通常認為抽菸導致肺癌的發生。
People often think of smoking as the major cause of lung cancer.

大部分的人把獅子和老虎視為危險的野生動物。
Most people take lions and tigers as dangerous wild animals.

我們認為臺北是臺灣最現代的都市。
We view Taipei as the most mordern city in Taiwan.

我認為林老師是令我印象最深刻的人。
I regarded Ms. Lin as the person that impressed me the most.

馬克認為考試失敗是進步的機會。
Mark sees the failure in exams as chances to improve.

讀者認為愛蜜莉‧狄克森是十九世紀最偉大的美國詩人之一。
Readers consider Emily Dickinson (to be) one of the greatest American poets of the nineteenth century.

10-7 S + be + known + as ~ 以～而為人所知

李遠哲博士以諾貝爾獎得主而為人所知。
Dr. Li Yuan-Che is known as the winner of the Nobel Prize.

他以身為首位成功在八十天內環遊世界的人而為人所知。
He was known as the first one succeeding in traveling around the world in eighty days.

德蕾莎修女以一生奉獻給需要幫助的人而為人所知。
Mother Teresa was known for devoting her life to the people in need.

他的善行全村的人都知道。
His good deeds were known to all the villagers.

黛安娜王妃以其優雅的身影及致力慈善活動而為全世界的人所知。
Princess Diana was known to the people around the world for both her elegance and her dedication to the charities.

觀其友，知其人。
A man is known by the company he keeps.

阿里山以美麗的日出聞名。
Mt. Ali is famous for its beautiful sunrise.

J.K.羅琳以身為暢銷小說《哈利波特》的作者聞名。
J.K. Rowling is well-known as the author of the best-selling novel Harry Potter.

張育成以在棒球場上的優秀表現聞名於全球棒球球迷。
Yu Chang's great performance in the baseball field is noted to the baseball fans all over the world.

秦始皇在中國歷史上以暴君之名而惡名昭彰。
Chin Shih-Huang is notorious as a tyrant in the Chinese history.

這個囚犯以在學校殺死同班同學而惡名昭彰。
This prisoner was notorious for killing his classmates in school.

這些黑派分子惡名昭彰，住在這社區的人都知道。
These gangsters are notorious to the people living in their community.

10-8 N/adj. + as + S + be/V ~, S + V ~ 雖然～，但～

雖然凱文很年輕，卻有成功的事業。
Young as Kevin is, he has a successful career.

雖然珊蒂是醫生，但她無法治好她兒子的病。
Doctor as Sandy was, she couldn't cure her son of the disease.

我雖然很感謝約翰救我一命，但我不想讓他占我便宜。
Very much as I thank John for saving my life, I wouldn't like him to take advantage of me.

雖然凱文很年輕，卻有成功的事業。
Although / Though Kevin is young, he has a successful career.

雖然珊蒂是醫生，但她無法治好她兒子的病。
Although / Though Sandy was a doctor, she couldn't cure her son of the disease.

我雖然很感謝約翰救我一命，但我不想讓他占我便宜。
Although / Though I thank John very much for saving my life, I wouldn't like him to take advantage of me.

不管你怎麼努力，要找到此問題的解方是不可能的。
Try as you may, it is impossible to find a solution to the problem.

不管他怎麼跑，也追不上那列火車。
Run as he might, he couldn't catch up with the train.

儘管我們會死去，我們的愛會繼續存在。
Die as we may, our love will live on.

10-9 A be to B + as + C be to D A之於B猶如C之於D

空氣之於人類，猶如水之於魚。
Air is to man as water is to fish.

父母之於孩子，猶如陽光之於植物。
Parents are to children as the sun is to plants.

空氣之於人類，猶如水之於魚。
As water is to fish, so air is to man.

父母之於孩子，猶如陽光之於植物。
As the sun is to plants, so parents are to children.

憂慮耗損心神，猶如鏽蝕腐蝕鐵。
As rust eats into iron, so care eats into heart.

你怎樣對待我，我就怎樣對待你。
As you treat me, so I will treat you.

農夫種什麼，就收成什麼。
As a farmer sows, so shall he reap.

語言會變，如同人會改變一樣。
As people change, so will language change.